NMS-16210: Structured Node List documentation (#6849)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/structured-node-list/introduction.adoc

[[structured-node-list]]
= Structured Node List
:description: Learn about the structured node list in OpenNMS Horizon/Meridian, which lets users perform enhanced data display, search, filter, and export node information.

> The Horizon 33 Web UI includes a new feature, the Structured Node List.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The structured node list is a Vue-based page that displays node information and lets the user perform enhanced data display, search, filter, and export data.

The main display shows a paginated table of nodes corresponding to the current search and filtering parameters.
You can sort most of the columns in ascending or descending order.

> You can choose among 10, 20 or 50 entries per page, navigate between pages, or go to the start or end of the currently filtered set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose among 10, 20, or 50 entries per page, navigate among pages, or go to the start or end of the currently filtered set.
```

.Structured Node List
image::structured-node-list/node-structure-overview.png["{page-component-title} web UI showing structured node list."]

The first column of each node has an Action menu where the user can do the following:

* Choose various actions, including **Info...** to open a dialog that displays details about the node.
* Navigate to various relevant pages (Alarms, Events, and so on).
* Perform other actions (rescan, schedule an outage, and so on).

The **Export** symbol image:structured-node-list/node-export-button.png[width=32] lets you export the current data in either CSV or JSON format.

> A gear icon image:structured-node-list/node-preferences-button.png[width=32] opens the Node Preferences window that allows you to configure the columns displayed and their order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *gear* symbol image:structured-node-list/node-preferences-button.png[width=32] opens the Node Preferences window that allows you to configure the columns displayed and their order.
```

.Node Preferences
image::structured-node-list/node-preferences.png["{page-component-title} Node Preferences dialog." width=400]

Click **Default** to reset all displayed columns to the default list visibility and order.

Click the checkbox next to each column name to display or hide that column.
Note that changes take effect immediately.

Click the up and down arrows to reorder the columns.

Click **Save and Close** to save your settings and your current search and filtering configuration.

Click the "X" to close without saving to local storage.

== Filter and Search

You can filter and search via the Filtering and Extended Search sections in the left panel, and by the **Search node label** search box above the node table.
Note that searches combine the results of all configured filters and search parameters.
For example, you can search by `Category + Location + Extended Search Term + Node Label search term` in any combination.

=== Node label search

The input box above the Node Table lets you search by node label.
This is a case-sensitive wildcard search.
Entering `cal` will match nodes have the label `localhost` as well as `california`, but not `California`.

=== Filtering

> You can filter by Category (for example, Surveillance Category), flows, and monitoring locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can filter by category (for example, surveillance category), flows, and monitoring locations.
```

Click on an item to filter by that item.
You can select more than one item per section.

> As items are selected, the number of items selected for that section will display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you choose items, the number of items selected for that section will display.
```

A check symbol lets you clear the selected items for that section.

Use **Clear All** to clear all filters and search parameters.

> Use **Match All** in the Categories section to display only nodes corresponding to *all* the selected categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use **Match All** in the Categories section to display only nodes corresponding to all the selected categories.
```

For example, you could filter on nodes that are in both the *Routers* and *Production* categories.

.Category Filter
image::structured-node-list/category-filter-match-all.png["{page-component-title} Node Category Filter." width=400]

=== Extended search

> This allows you to search by various additional fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lets you to search by additional fields.
```

[[structured-node-list]]
= Structured Node List

> :description: Provides details about the Structured Node List of {page-component-title}.

Author: Done

> The {page-component-title} 33 Web UI includes a new feature, the Structured Node List.

Author: Done

> This is a Vue-based page which displays node information and enables the user to perform enhanced data display, searching, filtering, and data export.

Author: Done

Navigate to this page from the main menu `Info > Structured Node List`.

The main display shows a paginated table of nodes corresponding to the current search and filtering parameters.

> Most of the columns can be sorted in ascending or descending order.

Author: Done

> You can choose between 10, 20 or 50 entries per page, and can navigate between pages, or go to the start or end of the currently filtered set.

Author: Done

.Structured Node List

> image::structured-node-list/node-structure-overview.png["{page-component-title} web UI showing structured node list"]

Author: Done

The first column of each node has an Action menu where the user can:

- choose various actions, including "Info..." to open a dialog window displaying details about the node
- navigate to various relevant pages (Alarms, Events, etc.)
- perform other actions (Rescan, Schedule an Outage, etc.)

> Above the table is a button that allows you to export the current data in either CSV or JSON format.

Author: Yes, added, and also added one for the gear symbol.

A gear icon opens the Node Preferences window which allows you to configure which columns are displayed and in which order.
Saving this configuration will also save the current search and filtering options.

An input field above the table allows you to search by node label.

On the left is the Filtering and Extended Search panel which allows you to filter and search by various parameters.

> == Node Table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Node table
```

The table displays various columns of information about the nodes that match the current search and filter parameters.

The Node Label and ID fields contain links to navigate to the Node Details page.

The IP Address field contains a link to go to the IP Interface page for that interface.
A tooltip will also display more information about the interface, for example if it is Managed, Primary, Not Eligible, etc.

The Flows field contains arrows denoting whether Ingress and/or Egress flow information is available, and a tooltip provides more detail.

> == Action Menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Action menu
```

The Action Menu next to each node contains the following:

[options="autowidth"]
|===
| Menu Item              | Description

| Info...

> | Display the Node Details dialog

Author: Changed to be a list. Also updated some of the names both in this list and in the dropdown and image.

| Events

> | Navigate to the Events page

Author: Fixed all these to be a list

| Alarms
| Navigate to the Alarms page

| Outages
| Navigate to the Outages page

| Assets
| Navigate to the Assets page

| Metadata
| Navigate to the Metadata page

| Hardware Info
| Navigate to the Hardware Inventory page

| Availability
| Navigate to the Availability page

| Resource Graphs
| Navigate to the Resource Graphs page

| Rescan
| Navigate to the Node Rescan page

| Admin
| Navigate to the Admin / Node Management page

| Update SNMP
| Navigate to the Update SNMP Information page

| Schedule an Outage
| Navigate to the Scheduled Outage page

| View Topology
| Navigate to the Topology Map page
|===

.Node Action Menu
image::structured-node-list/node-action-menu.png["{page-component-title} the node Action menu" width=400]

> == Node Details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Node details
```

Clicking on the "Info..." item in the Action Menu displays the Node Details dialog which provides additional information about the node.

.Node Details
image::structured-node-list/node-details.png["{page-component-title} the Node Details dialog" width=400]

== Download / Export

Clicking the Download button allows you to export the current data (depending on search and filter configuration) in either CSV or JSON format.

.Download / Export
image::structured-node-list/node-download-menu.png["{page-component-title} the Node download / export menu"]

== Node Preferences

Clicking the gear icon opens up the Node Preferences dialog.

.Node Preferences
image::structured-node-list/node-preferences.png["{page-component-title} the Node Preferences dialog" width=400]

Click "Default" to reset all displayed columns to the default list visibility and order.

> Click the checkbox next to each column to display or hide that column. Note that changes take effect immediately.

Author: It's admittedly a little tricky. Changes take effect immediately in that they are "saved" in the Vue runtime code. But if user hard-refreshed the page those changes would be lost unless they clicked "Save and Close".

There's some explanation below re the Save feature. It saves by using the web browser's "local storage" facility. So preferences are stored for that browser on that machine only. No one else will see the changes, and that user would not see them if they used a different browser even on same machine, or used a different machine.

Saving preferences by OpenNMS user would be more ideal, but more work, and seems we should coordinate a general "User Preferences" system probably using Content Management.

Click the up and down arrows to reorder the columns.

Click "Save and Close" to save your settings.
This will also save your current search and filtering configuration.

Click the "X" to close without making changes.

> NOTE: Node Preferences are stored in your browser's `Local Storage`.

Author: Good idea, done!

The preferences will be retained unless cleared by your browser's policy.
Note that currently your preferences won't be available on different machines or the same machine using a different web browser.

== Filtering and Searching

Filtering and searching can be done via the Filtering and Extended Search sections in the left panel, and by the "Search node label" search box above the node table.
Note that searches will combine the results of *all* configured filters and search parameters.
For example you can search by `Category + Location + Extended Search Term + Node Label search term` in any combination.

=== Node Label Search

The input box above the Node Table allows you to search by node label.
Note, this is a case-sensitive wildcard search.
Entering `cal` will match nodes have the label `localhost` as well as `california` but not `California`.

=== Filtering

Filtering allows you to filter by Category (i.e. Surveillance Category), Flows and Monitoring Locations.

Click on an item to filter by that item.
More than one item per section can be selected.

> As items are selected, the number of items selected will display; a check icon will display to clear that section's selections.

Author: This sentence specifically means the number of items selected is shown.

I updated to:

```
As items are selected, the number of items selected for that section will display.
A check symbol lets you clear the selected items for that section.
```

The image makes it a little clearer: items selected are shaded light gray, and the number appears next to the section name, e.g. "Categories (2) (x)"

> Use "Clear All" to clear all filters and search parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use **Clear All** to clear all filters and search parameters.
```

> The Categories section allows you to enable "Match All", in which case only nodes corresponding to *all* the selected categories (i.e. the "intersection") will be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use **Match All** in the Categories section to display only nodes corresponding to *all* the selected categories.
```

For example, you could filter on nodes that are in both the *Routers* and *Production* categories.

.Category Filter
image::structured-node-list/category-filter-match-all.png["{page-component-title} the Node Category Filter" width=400]

=== Extended Search

This allows you to search by various additional fields.
Note that some fields perform wildcard searches and some are exact searches.
Also note that some fields, for example SNMP fields, are not displayed in the table, but will display in the Node Details dialog.

[options="autowidth"]
|===
| Item                   | Description

| Foreign Source

> | Search by Foreign Source only

Author: fixed all of these

| Foreign ID
| Search by Foreign ID only

| Foreign Source:Foreign ID
| Search by Foreign Source and Foreign ID in `fs:fid` format

| IP Address
| Search by IP address. Will only search on valid IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, will not search on wildcard or partial addresses

| Sys Contact
| Search by System Contact. Performs a case-sensitive wildcard search.

| Sys Description
| Search by System Description. Performs a case-sensitive wildcard search.

| Sys Location

> | Search by System Location. Performs a case-sensitive wildcard search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Performs a case-sensitive wildcard search by system location.
```

| Sys Name
| Search by System Name. Performs a case-sensitive wildcard search.

| Sys Object Id
| Search by System Object ID. Performs a case-sensitive wildcard search.

| SNMP Alias

> | Search by SNMP Alias. Performs an exact search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Performs an exact search by SNMP alias.
```

| SNMP Description

> | Search by SNMP Description. Performs an exact search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Performs an exact search by SNMP description.
```

| SNMP Index

> | Search by SNMP Index. Performs an exact search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Performs an exact search by SNMP index.
```
